JUDY WOODRUFF: The "NewsHour,"
in partnership with the Marist
Institute for Public Opinion
and NPR, is out with a new
poll that looks at Americans'
opinions on President Trump,
health care, the
economy and more.
Joining me now to dig into
the results are Lee Miringoff
of Marist and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political Report.
Welcome to both of you.
Lee, I'm going to
start with you.
Let's look at one of the
questions, first, about the
Republican health care plan...
LEE MIRINGOFF, Director,
Marist Institute for
Public Opinion: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
... in the Senate.
This is the plan the
president is pushing for.
You asked people their
assessment of the Senate plan.
What did you find?
LEE MIRINGOFF: Well, it was very
poor in terms of public opinion.
And what's fascinating in the
numbers is even a plurality of
Republicans around the nation
are unsure on terms of the
Senate health care plan.
So the Republicans took a very
big risk going forward with
something when they didn't even
have their core following
solidly behind them.
And I think the proof
is in the results.
The Democrats,
obviously, were opposed.
Independents have been scurrying
away from the Republicans
and questioning President
Trump and Republicans in
Congress in greater numbers.
So, as far as the health care
proposal is concerned, it
clearly didn't have the kind
of support that you would want
to go forward with if you're
trying to make such a major
change.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just to quickly
go over the numbers, approval
overall, 17 percent of the
Senate plan,
disapproval, 55 percent.
And then when you ask
people if they approved
of the way Republicans
in Congress are handling
health care, it was 21
percent approval, 65
percent disapproval.
Amy, what does
all this tell you?
AMY WALTER, The Cook
Political Report: Yes.
Well, Lee makes a very
good point that, even
among Republicans,
there's not a tremendous
amount of support, not only
for the bill, but for the way
that Republicans in Congress
are handling it.
I think a very small plurality
of Republicans said they like
the job that Republicans in
Congress are doing on this.
Quite frankly, Republicans
have not done a very good job
shaping and defining this bill.
It's being defined by what it
isn't as much as by what it is.
And that's pretty clear
in the polling data
that we're seeing here.
The other interesting thing that
I found in this poll was that,
when they asked the question
about who would you blame
if this all falls apart, if
there's no repeal of Obamacare,
and most Americans -- this is
true of Democrat, Republican,
independent -- they don't blame
Donald Trump.
They either blame Republicans
-- independents and Democrats
say they would blame Republicans
in Congress.
Republicans say they
blame Democrats mostly.
But Trump gets
very little blame.
LEE MIRINGOFF: What is really
interesting is that although
Obamacare really doesn't
have a champion right now, most
of the talk has been how to
replace and repeal, it remains
popular with Americans.
And I think -- so the
Republican proposal not
only wasn't well-organized.
It really flew in the face
of what public opinion is, so
really going uphill on this.
And I think that's why
they have had such a
difficult time with it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lee, you
also asked the generic question,
what do people think of
the job the president is doing?
And I think, not
surprising, along party
lines, a large majority
of Republicans like what
he's doing.
A large majority of Democrats
dislike it, but among
independents, some interesting,
interesting results.
LEE MIRINGOFF: Yes, and the
independents are the group,
of course, in the middle.
And, you know, they're much more
like Democrats right now than
Republicans in terms of their
attitude.
And they have grown in their
disapproval of President Trump
since the first poll right
after he took office.
And now almost 60 percent
of independents have a
negative view of him.
And those numbers have gone
up, the negative numbers have.
So there's a real question on
their part about the direction
the country is going in and
a lot of other concerns that
they have on an issue-by-issue
basis, health care being
one, but others of concern
to independents as well.
They were willing to
give him the benefit
of the doubt initially,
but that has certainly
evaporated, and whatever
political capital he
had with this group,
that's been well spent
- - or it has been
spent, I should say.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, what do
you see in these numbers,
especially among independents?
AMY WALTER: Yes, Lee framed it
perfectly, which is whatever
benefit of the doubt they
may be giving -- they may have
been giving the president in
January, and it was a very
thin benefit, it's been
dried up pretty well by now.
But you're also looking, if
you just think historically
or look historically, at what
it means to have support for
independents this low, and if
you look at the last midterm
elections where a president
had low approval ratings with
independents at this number,
somewhere between 30 percent,
35 percent approval rating among
independents, they went on to
lose a very large number of
seats in that midterm election.
And that really could be the
tipping point for a lot of
these Republicans, too, who are
up in 2018.
They may sit in districts that
a Republican carried or that
are Republican-leaning, but
they count on independents
coming over and supporting
the Republican in the November
election.
If those independents are
feeling dissatisfied or
they're feeling dispirited,
or, quite frankly,
they're feeling angry --
that's the other important
thing to note about this poll.
It's not just that independents
felt like they didn't
approve of Donald Trump.
Their strong disapproval
ratings of Donald Trump are
somewhere -- for President Trump
- - are somewhere in the 40
percent range vs. just I think
it's in the teens that strongly
support him.
So that intensity of
disapproval is a real - -
should be a real warning
sign for all Republicans,
especially those
who are up in 2018.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quickly,
Lee, you also asked a question
I hadn't seen before, and
that was comparing who is a
more effective leader, President
Trump or former President
Obama?
Thirty-four percent
President Trump, 58
percent President Obama.
I guess that mirrors overall
support for this president.
LEE MIRINGOFF: Yes.
Look, and former presidents
always look do better after
they have completed their term
in office, but at this
point in President
Obama's administration
in '09, his numbers
were in the mid-50s.
Contrast that with the low
to mid-30s with Donald Trump,
and you see the answer to the
question, why is this president
having such a difficult time
in the court of public opinion?
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
fascinating numbers.
There's more there.
I know everybody
will want to dig in.
You can find it all
on our Web site.
In the meantime, Lee Miringoff
of Marist, Amy Walter of The
Cook Political Report, thank
you both.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
LEE MIRINGOFF: Thank you, Judy.